DOCS-7855-7856-4.3-Changes-for-SDK (#63)
mulesoft/docs-mule-sdk: modules/ROOT/pages/client-credentials.adoc

It is a simple immutable POJO that contains information regarding the outcome of the OAuth dance. It contains the following information:

[source, java, linenums]
----
public interface ClientCrendentialsState {

  /**
   * @return The obtained access token
   */
  String getAccessToken();

  /**
   * @return The access token's expiration. The actual format of it depends on the OAuth provider
   */
  Optional<String> getExpiresIn();
}
----

Through this object, the provider gains access to the accessToken and other standard information that was obtained during the OAuth dance. The original Salesforce example shows how the connect() method uses this POJO to create the client.

== Configure a Client Credentials Connector

An important aspect of OAuth-enabled modules is how to use them. As much as the SDK does to hide the complexities of the OAuth protocol, things like the OAuth dance are unavoidable. The SDK’s approach to this problem is to standardize the experience of all OAuth modules to keep simplifying the user experience.
This section discusses the steps a user must take to use the module.

> === Synthetic Parameters

Author: ```suggestion
=== Synthetic Parameters

```

= Client Credentials
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:keywords: mule, sdk, grant, oauth

Available since version 1.3.

> Unlike the Authorization Code grant type, which focuses on authorizing an application that wants to act on a user's behalf, the Client Credentials grant type focuses on authorizing an application acting on its behalf. This grant type is better suited for machine-to-machine communication as it doesn't require human intervention.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unlike the Authorization Code grant type, which focuses on authorizing an application that wants to act on a user's behalf, the Client Credentials grant type focuses on authorizing an application to act on its own behalf. This grant type is better suited for machine-to-machine communication because it doesn't require human intervention.
```

> == Develop a Client Credentials-enabled Connector

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Develop a Client Credentials-Enabled Connector
```

> You can add Client Credentials support at the ConnectionProvider level through the @ClientCredentials annotation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can add Client Credentials support at the `ConnectionProvider` level through the `@ClientCredentials` annotation.
```

> Here is an oversimplified ConnectionProvider example for the Salesforce connector:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is an oversimplified `ConnectionProvider` example for Anypoint Connector for Salesforce (Salesforce Connector):
```

  /**
   * Avoid interacting with the user
   */
  @OAuthParameter
  @Optional(defaultValue = "false")
  private boolean immediate;

  /**
   * Specifies how the authorization server prompts the user for reauthentication and reapproval
   */
  @OAuthParameter
  @Optional(defaultValue = "true")
  private boolean prompt;

  @OAuthCallbackValue(expression = "#[payload.instance_url]")
  private String instanceId;

  @OAuthCallbackValue(expression = "#[payload.id]")
  private String userId;

  private AuthorizationCodeState state;

  @Override
  public SalesforceClient connect() throws ConnectionException {
    if (state.getAccessToken() == null) {
      throw new SalesforceException(MessageFormat.format(COULD_NOT_EXTRACT_FIELD, "accessToken"));
    }

    if (instanceId == null) {
      throw new SalesforceException(MessageFormat.format(COULD_NOT_EXTRACT_FIELD, "instanceId"));
    }

    return new SalesforceClient(state.getAccessToken(), instanceId, apiVersion);
  }

  public void disconnect(SalesforceClient connection) {
    connection.close();
  }

  @Override
  public ConnectionValidationResult validate(SalesforceClient connection) {
    return success();
  }
}
----

> The class implements ConnectionProvider, just like other connections in the SDK. Operations that are authenticated through the object operate over the SalesforceClient object that the provider returns. This is an important design consideration because it permits you to decouple the operation from the authentication method that is used because the connector could define another ConnectionProvider that uses  basic authentication, and all the operations remain fully compatible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The class implements `ConnectionProvider`, just like other connections in the SDK. Operations that are authenticated through the object operate over the `SalesforceClient` object that the provider returns. This is an important design consideration because it permits you to decouple the operation from the authentication method that is used because the connector could define another `ConnectionProvider` that uses basic authentication, and all the operations remain fully compatible.
```
Please reread that final sentence and determine if you can clarify it by breaking it into two sentences. That's a lot of modification: from...that is used because....that uses...remains fully compatible.

Reviewer: GLOBALLY review the remainder of this text for terms that represent actual syntax, which should be formatted using ` ` notation. See style guide entry for font choices and act accordingly; I will stop marking this from this point onward.

[source, java, linenums]
----
public @interface ClientCredentials {

  /**
   * @return The Url of the endpoint which provides the access tokens
   */
  String tokenUrl();

  /**
   * @return Expression to be used on the response of {@link #tokenUrl()} to extract the access token
   */
  String accessTokenExpr() default "#[payload.access_token]";

  /**
   * @return Expression to be used on the response of {@link #tokenUrl()} to extract the access token expiration
   */
  String expirationExpr() default "#[payload.expires_in]";

  /**
   * @return The default set of scopes to be requested, as a comma separated list. Empty string means no default scopes.
   */
  String defaultScopes() default "";

  /**
   * Allows to customize the placement that the client credentials will have in the request.
   *
   * @return the selected {@link CredentialsPlacement}. Defaults to {@link CredentialsPlacement#BASIC_AUTH_HEADER}
   */
  CredentialsPlacement credentialsPlacement() default BASIC_AUTH_HEADER;

}
----

=== Connection Management Strategy

> The provider in the previous example does not implement any specialization of the ConnectionProvider interface, which means that the OAuth mechanism can be combined with the other connection management strategies. The connection objects can be pooled, cached, or created from scratch each time, depending on which interface is used (for example, PoolingConnectionProvider, CachedConnectionProvider, ConnectionProvider, and so on). For more information on connectivity management, see the connectivity reference.

Reviewer: Which example is "the previous example"? Can we provide the specific section title, so that topic texts remain independent of "following" and "previous"?

Reviewer: "from scratch" is idiomatic; how about "anew"?

Reviewer: GLOBAL, per style reference: "information on" > "information about"

Author: ```suggestion
The provider in the `@ClientCredentials` example does not implement any specialization of the ConnectionProvider interface, which means that the OAuth mechanism can be combined with the other connection management strategies. The connection objects can be pooled, cached, or created anew each time, depending on which interface is used (for example, PoolingConnectionProvider, CachedConnectionProvider, ConnectionProvider, and so on). For more information about connectivity management, see the connectivity reference.
```

> Be aware of the semantics of using the vanilla ConnectionProvider interface in this scenario. In a regular, “non-oauth” connection provider, using the vanilla interface means that each time a component requires a connection, a new one is created, and it is destroyed when the component is finished. Although this will remain true for the OAuth case, it does not mean that the OAuth dance is performed again. New connection objects are created, but the same access token is reused as long as it remains valid.

Reviewer: "vanilla" is also idiomatic; consider "basic" or "regular" or "common" or a similar term that is appropriate to the specific context. GLOBAL.

Also, I think that the final two sentences can be merged with the one previous and minimized down to the points that a basic interface requires a new connection and later the destruction of that connection, but does not require a new access token.

Reviewer: BREAK EDIT HERE

Reviewer: RESUME 28

Author: ```suggestion
Be aware of the semantics of using the unspecialized (for example, not PollingConnectionProvider, CachedConnectionProvider) ConnectionProvider interface in this scenario. In a regular, “non-OAuth” connection provider, using the unspecialized interface means that each time a component requires a connection, a new one is created, and it is destroyed when the component is finished. Although this will remain true for the OAuth case, it does not mean that the OAuth dance is performed again. New connection objects are created, but the same access token is reused as long as it remains valid.
```

Author: Check word use. Vanilla cannot translate into Japanese properly.

=== Regular Parameters versus OAuth Parameters

> This ConnectionProvider can have parameters, just like any other connection provider. However, you must distinguish regular parameters from the concept of @OAuthParameter.

Reviewer: Clarify: exactly which provider is "this ConnectionProvider"?
It's a bit confusing to use syntax as a noun.

Reviewer: What are "regular parameters"?
The title compares parameters to parameters, but this text compares (actual) parameters from the "concept" of a type of parameter?

> This ConnectionProvider can have parameters, just like any other connection provider. However, you must distinguish regular parameters from the concept of @OAuthParameter.

Author: ```suggestion
This ConnectionProvider can have parameters, just like any other connection provider. However, you must distinguish regular parameters from the concept of `@OAuthParameter`.
```

> An OAuthParameter is included as a custom parameter while performing the OAuth dance. So, for example, while the apiVersion parameter is something that the connection provider uses to create the SalesforceClient, the immediate parameter is actually sent on the OAuth request to the service provider.

Reviewer: There is no such thing as "an OAuthParameter"; however, there is "an OAuth parameter," or "an `OAuthParameter` instance," or "an `OAuthParameter` value"....
GLOBALLY avoid using proper names or syntax representations as nouns. I will stop marking this from here on.

Reviewer: ...the `apiVersion` parameter
GLOBALLY tag

Reviewer: What is an "immediate" parameter?

Author: ```suggestion
An OAuthParameter is included as a custom parameter while performing the OAuth dance. So, for example, while the `apiVersion` parameter is something that the connection provider uses to create the SalesforceClient, the immediate parameter is actually sent on the OAuth request to the service provider.
```

> From the module’s point of view, it is just another parameter for which the user provides a value. You can combine these parameters with @Optional, @Expression, and all the other annotations you can use with the traditional @Parameter annotation. In the DSL, regular and OAuth parameters appear together. The module’s end user should not notice any difference.

Reviewer: What module? We have not yet referred to "module"....

Author: ```suggestion
From the module’s point of view, it is just another parameter for which the user provides a value. You can combine these parameters with `@Optional`, `@Expression`, and all the other annotations you can use with the traditional `@Parameter` annotation. In the DSL, regular and OAuth parameters appear together. The module’s end user should not notice any difference.
```

> == Request Alias

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== requestAlias Parameter
```

> Some custom OAuth parameters might include characters that are not supported in Java. For example "Api-Key". Since you cannot use "-" as part of a field name, the @OAuthParameter annotation has an optional parameter called requestAlias. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some custom OAuth parameters include characters that are not supported in Java, for example `Api-Key`. Since you cannot use `-` as part of a field name, the @OAuthParameter annotation has an optional parameter called `requestAlias`:
```

[source, java, linenums]
----
@OAuthParameter(requestAlias = "api-key")
private String apiKey;
----

> === @OAuthCallbackValue

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== @OAuthCallbackValue Annotation? Value?
```
GLOBAL in the following section headings.

Author: ```suggestion
=== @OAuthCallbackValue Annotation
```

> Callback values are extracted from the response that the service provider sends through the OAuth callback. Although most service providers simply return standard items (such as access and refresh tokens, expiration information, and so on), some others return additional items. In the Salesforce case, they return user and instance IDs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Callback values are extracted from the response that the service provider sends through the OAuth callback. Although most service providers return only standard items (such as access and refresh tokens, expiration information, and so on), others return additional items (such as user and instance IDs, in the case of Salesforce).
```
parallelism

> The annotation includes an expression that is applied on the response to extract the value. That value is then assigned to the field for the connection provider to use. When the connect(), validate() or disconnect() methods are invoked, the fields are set and usable.

Reviewer: "applied on the response" or "applied to the response" (or "applied when the response is received"?)

Reviewer: Series comma:
...the connect(), validate(), or disconnect() methods....

Author: ```suggestion
The annotation includes an expression that is applied to the response to extract the value. That value is then assigned to the field for the connection provider to use. When the connect(), validate(), or disconnect() methods are invoked, the fields are set and usable.
```

=== @ClientCredentialsState

> Every ConnectionProvider annotated with @ClientCredentials MUST contain one (and only one) field of type ClientCredentialsState.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every ConnectionProvider annotated with @ClientCredentials _must_ contain one (and only one) field of type ClientCredentialsState.
```
If we _must_ use emphasis, our style is to use italic and not allcaps.

> Every ConnectionProvider annotated with @ClientCredentials _must_ contain one (and only one) field of type ClientCredentialsState.

Author: ```suggestion
Every ConnectionProvider annotated with `@ClientCredentials` _must_ contain one (and only one) field of type ClientCredentialsState.
```

> It is a simple immutable POJO that contains information regarding the outcome of the OAuth dance. It contains the following information:

Reviewer: Will every possible audience member know what POJO stands for?

Author: Yes, POJO stands for "Plain Old Java Object" and is commonly used across Java-related documentation. I have never read a Java guide in which it was disambiguated before being used. The disambiguation translates poorly.

[source, java, linenums]
----
public interface ClientCrendentialsState {

  /**
   * @return The obtained access token
   */
  String getAccessToken();

  /**
   * @return The access token's expiration. The actual format of it depends on the OAuth provider
   */
  Optional<String> getExpiresIn();
}
----

> Through this object, the provider gains access to the accessToken and other standard information that was obtained during the OAuth dance. The original Salesforce example shows how the connect() method makes use of this POJO to create the client.

Reviewer: Will the audience remember "the original Salesforce example"?

Reviewer: "makes use of" > "uses"

Author: ```suggestion
Through this object, the provider gains access to the accessToken and other standard information that was obtained during the OAuth dance. The original Salesforce example shows how the connect() method uses this POJO to create the client.
```

== Configure a Client Credentials Connector

> An important aspect of OAuth-enabled modules is how to use them. As much as the SDK does to hide the complexities of the OAuth protocol, things like the OAuth dance are unavoidable. The SDK’s approach to this problem is to standardize the experience of all OAuth modules to keep simplifying the user experience.

Reviewer: What is this paragraph trying to say? 
Consider simplifying/clarifying to state that the goal of the SDK is to standardize the use of OAuth protocol to simplify the user experience (by providing synthetic parameters, expressions, DSL...?)

> This section discusses the steps a user must take to use the module.

Reviewer: I don't see any steps (tasks).

Reviewer: Also...the title is "configure," so I'd expect that the intro text would use this term.

=== Synthetic Parameters

> In addition to everything explicitly defined in the ConnectionProvider, the SDK automatically adds some extra parameters and injects the proper behavior for them.

Reviewer: Why? To what user advantage?

Reviewer: Does one "inject" behavior?

[cols="1,1,1,2,2", options="header"]
|===
|Parameter Name
|Required
|Expressions
|Default Value
|Description

|`clientId`
|YES
|SUPPORTED

> |N/A

Reviewer: GLOBALLY spell "not available" or "not applicable," or use "n.a." if you must abbreviate, per style ref.
("N/A" literally = "not and/or available/applicable")

Author: ```suggestion
|N.A.
```

> |N/A

Author: N.A.

> |The OAuth `clientId` as registered with the service provider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|The OAuth `clientId` value as registered with the service provider.
```

|`clientSecret`
|YES
|NOT_SUPPORTED

> |N/A

Author: ```suggestion
|N.A.
```

> |The OAuth `clientSecret` as registered with the service provider.

Reviewer: ditto; GLOBAL

Author: ```suggestion
|The OAuth `clientSecret` value as registered with the service provider.
```

|`tokenUrl`
|NO
|SUPPORTED

> |Value provided in the @ClientCredentials annotation.

Author: ```suggestion
|Value provided in the `@ClientCredentials` annotation.
```

|The service provider's token endpoint URL.

|`scopes`
|NO
|SUPPORTED

> |Value provided in the @ClientCredentials annotation.

Reviewer: parallelism
```suggestion
|The value provided in the @ClientCredentials annotation.
```

> |The value provided in the @ClientCredentials annotation.

Author: ```suggestion
|The value provided in the `@ClientCredentials` annotation.
```

> |The OAuth scopes to be requested during the dance. If not provided, it defaults to those in the annotation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|The OAuth scopes to be requested during the dance. If not provided, this value defaults to those in the annotation.
```

|`objectStore`
|NO
|NOT_SUPPORTED

> |N/A

Author: ```suggestion
|N.A.
```

> |A reference to the ObjectStore used for storing each resource owner ID’s data. If not specified, the runtime automatically provisions the default one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|A reference to the ObjectStore used for storing each resource owner ID’s data. If not specified, the runtime automatically provisions the default Object Store.
```

Author: ```suggestion
|A reference to the ObjectStore used for storing each resource owner ID’s data. If not specified, the runtime automatically provisions a default one.
```

|===

=== About the Use of Expressions

> The previous table identifies many of the synthetic parameters that accept expressions. Using expressions there has the same effect as using expressions in a regular parameter: it turns the configuration into a dynamic one.

Reviewer: Avoid using locators like "previous," which create text section interdependencies and make potential reuse difficult.
Consider identifying by section heading:
```suggestion
The synthetic parameters table identifies many of those that accept expressions. Using expressions in synthetic parameters has the same effect as using expressions in regular parameters: they make the configuration dynamic.
```

Author: ```suggestion
The synthetic parameters table identifies many of the synthetic parameters that accept expressions. Using expressions there has the same effect as using expressions in a regular parameter: it turns the configuration dynamic.
```

=== OAuth Connection DSL

> The following example shows  generated DSL:

Reviewer: omit space
```suggestion
The following example shows generated DSL:
```

[source, java, linenums]
----
<sfdc:config name="salesforce">
    <sfdc:client-credentials-connection display="PAGE" immediate="FALSE" prompt="CONSENT">
        <sfdc:oauth-client-credentials clientId="${sfdc.consumerkey}" clientSecret="${sfdc.consumersecret}" tokenUrl="http://..." />
        <sfdc:oauth-store-config objectStore="oauthObjectStore" />
</sfdc:config>
----

> Regular and OAuth parameters are all shown at the connection provider level, just like in any other provider.

Reviewer: This sentence compares parameters with "any other provider"; reword to clarify.

Author: ```suggestion
Regular and OAuth parameters are all shown at the connection provider level, as they would be in any other provider.
```

The parameters related to the Client Credentials grant type are placed on a child element called <oauth-client-credentials>.

> The parameters related to ObjectStore will be placed in a child element called <oauth-store-config>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The parameters related to ObjectStore are placed in a child element called <oauth-store-config>.
```

=== Configuring a Custom ObjectStore

> The obtained access tokens are stored in an ObjectStore. By default, the SDK stores them in the app’s default store, but users can define their own custom one, as shown in this example:

Reviewer: ObjectStore vs. default store vs. custom one?
```suggestion
The obtained access tokens are stored in an Object Store. By default, the SDK stores them in the app’s default Object Store, but users can define their own custom Object Store, as shown in this example:
```

[source, java, linenums]
----
<os:object-store name="tokenStore"
   entryTtl="1"
   entryTtlUnit="HOURS"
   maxEntries="100"
   persistent="true"
   expirationInterval="30"
   expirationIntervalUnit="MINUTES" />

<sfdc:config name="salesforce">
    <sfdc:client-credentials-connection display="PAGE" immediate="FALSE" prompt="CONSENT">
        <sfdc:oauth-client-credentials clientId="${sfdc.consumerkey}" clientSecret="${sfdc.consumersecret}" tokenUrl="http://..." />
        <sfdc:oauth-store-config objectStore="tokenStore" />
</sfdc:config>
----

> == Handling Expired Client Credentials Access Token

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Refreshing an Expired Access Token
```

Author: ```suggestion
== Refresh an Expired Client Credentials Access Token
```

> Most service providers return (or should return) access tokens with a limited lifespan. In general, access tokens usually expire about 30 to 60 minutes after being issued, although this is not a standard that is strictly enforced by providers.

Reviewer: simplify
```suggestion
Most access tokens have a limited lifespan: typically about 30 to 60 minutes after being issued. This is why most providers also supply a refresh token, which eliminates the need to perform the OAuth dance again.
```

Author: ```suggestion
Most access tokens have a limited lifespan: typically about 30 to 60 minutes after being issued. This is why most providers also supply a refresh token, which eliminates the need to perform the OAuth dance again, although this is not a standard that is strictly enforced by providers.
```

> In the same way, providers often provide a refresh token with the access token. The refresh token is a second token that can be used to replace an expired access token with a fresh one, without the need to perform the OAuth dance again.

Reviewer: see above

Author: ```suggestion
```

> There is not an enforced standard that the SDK can use to automatically detect a token expiration scenario and obtain a new one. Different APIs communicate that in different ways. That is why the AccessTokenExpiredException exception exists, shown below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is not an enforced standard that the SDK automatically detects an expired token and replaces it. Because different APIs communicate that in different ways, the `AccessTokenExpiredException` exception exists, shown below: 
```

[source, java, linenums]
----
public void someOperation(@Connection SalesforceRestClient client) {
    Response response = client.performSomeOperation();
    if (response.getStatusCode() == 401) {
        throw new AccessTokenExpiredException();
    }
}
----

> The example above uses an imaginary REST client to perform an operation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example uses an imaginary REST client to perform an operation:
```

> * It assumes that this rest client was created through a ConnectionProvider annotated with @ClientCredentials.

Author: ```suggestion
* It assumes that this REST client was created through a ConnectionProvider annotated with `@ClientCredentials`.
```

> * It performs the operation and gets a Response object that contains information of the HTTP call.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* It performs the operation and receives a Response object that contains information about the HTTP call.
```

> * The example assumes that a status code of 401 (UNAUTHORIZED) means that the token has expired.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The example assumes that a status code of 401 (UNAUTHORIZED) means that the token is expired.
```

> * The example assumes that a status code of 401 (UNAUTHORIZED) means that the token is expired.

Author: ```suggestion
* The example assumes that a status code of 401 (`UNAUTHORIZED`) means that the token is expired.
```

> * It throws the AccessTokenExpiredException.

Reviewer: "throws"? Is this an error?

Author: ```suggestion
* It returns the `AccessTokenExpiredException` error.
```

> When the SDK detects this exception, it automatically performs the refresh dance and retries the operation with a new access token.

Reviewer: Hmm...I thought that the need to dance again was supposed to be removed by using this exception?

> Note that, in practice, different APIs notify you of the access token expiration in different ways. Some give you clients that throw exceptions, while others give you custom messages. You should research the remote API to determine the best way to account for this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As noted earlier, different APIs notify you of an access token expiration in different ways. Some give you clients that throw exceptions, while others give you custom messages. You should research the remote API to determine the best way to account for this.
```
Consider omitting the final sentence, which is kind of vague: research the API? the best way to account for?

=== Invalidating Access Tokens

> Multi-tenancy implies the ability to invalidate the access token of a particular resourceOwnerId. Invalidating the token causes the associated token information to be deleted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Multitenancy implies the ability to invalidate the access token of a particular resourceOwnerId, causing the associated token information to be deleted.
```

> To invalidate an access token, the SDK automatically adds an operation called `unauthorize` to every OAuth-enabled module. Returning to the example above, you might invalidate the token obtained like this:

Reviewer: ditto re. " example above" dependency

Author: ```suggestion
To invalidate an access token, the SDK automatically adds an operation called `unauthorize` to every OAuth-enabled module. Given the following example, you might invalidate the token obtained like this:
```

[source, java]
----
<sfdc:unauthorize config-ref="salesforce"/>
----

> Note that this operation does not invalidate the token on the Service Provider. It removes the Service Provider from Mule’s caches and ObjectStores.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that this operation does not invalidate the token on the service provider. It removes the service provider from Mule's caches and Object Stores.
```
